cds export (#2275)
cap-js/docs: tools/cds-cli.md

- [Diagram: Namespaces](vscode://settings/cds.preview.diagram.namespaces)
- [Diagram: Queries](vscode://settings/cds.preview.diagram.queries)

## cds export <Beta />

With `cds export` you create an API client package to be used
for data exchange via CAP-level Service integration ("Calesi").

First define a data provider service in your CDS model that serves as an
interface to your data. Put each such data provider service in a separate file.

For the [xflights](https://github.com/capire/xflights) sample app,
an API that provides information about flights, airports, and airlines
could look like this:

::: code-group

```cds [srv/data-service.cds]
using { sap.capire.flights as my } from '../db/schema';

@data.product @hcql @rest @odata 
service sap.capire.flights.data {
  @readonly entity Flights as projection on my.Flights;
  @readonly entity Airlines as projection on my.Airlines;
  @readonly entity Airports as projection on my.Airports;
}
```

:::

Then create an API client package for this service:

```sh
cds export srv/data-service.cds
```

> The API client package is generated into a new folder _apis/data-service_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command generates the API client package into a new folder _apis/data-service_.
```

![The screenshot is described in the accompanying text.](assets/cds-export.png) {style="filter: drop-shadow(0 2px 5px rgba(0,0,0,.40));"}

The `service.csn` contains only the interface defined in the service,

> stripping away the query part of the entities and all the model underneath it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `service.csn` contains only the interface defined in the service, removing the query part of the entities and all the underlying model.
```

> stripping away the query part of the entities and all the model underneath it.

Reviewer: Are all data provider services merged into that one `service.csn`? In the example used here/above the service is called `data-service.cds`. I did expect to see a `data-service.csn` but this is not the case, or?

In addition, there are i18n bundles with the localized metadata relevant
for the interface, and a _data_ folder with test data
that exactly matches the structure of the entities in the API.

`cds export` also adds a _package.json_. The package name is the
application name (from the main _package.json_) prefixed with the

> file name of the data service, in our example `@capire/xflights-data-service`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cds export` also adds a _package.json_. The package name combines the application name (from the main _package.json_) with the file name of the data service, prefixed accordingly. In our example, this results in `@capire/xflights-data-service`.
```

You can change this name as appropriate.

The generated package can then be published, e.g. via `npm publish`.

For consuming the API in another CAP application
* import the API package with `npm add`
* define consumption views on the imported entities
* use them in your model as if they were local entities

> * add custom code to access the data in the provider app via any of the offered protocols

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To consume the API in another CAP application:
1. Import the API package with `npm add`
2. Define consumption views on the imported entities
3. Use them in your model as if they were local entities
4. Add custom code to access the data in the provider app via any of the offered protocols
```
